Releasing a new version of the Sea Glass Look and Feel

1. First you must check out a clean subversion copy. If the copy in your
   working directory is clean you may use that. If you are using git-svn you
   must check out a clean subversion copy in a new directory.

2. Change to that clean directory.

3. Prepare the release.

   Execute the following command, substituting the "myusername" with your own
   remote username.

      mvn -Dusername=myusername release:prepare

   The release:prepare command will ask what version number you want to use.
   The default should be good. Then it will ask what tag you want to use to
   tag the release. The default should still be good. Finally, it will ask
   what version number you want to start developing. If you like the default,
   use it, otherwise enter your own. Remember to add "-SNAPSHOT" to the end.
   This is important.

   The result of running this command is that the pom.xml file will have its
   version updated to the release version and be checked in. Then a new tag
   will be created for the release, consisting of the current trunk revisions.
   Finally, the pom.xml file's version will be updated to the new version and
   that will be checked in.

4. Perform the release

   Now execute the following command, substituting the "myusername" with your
   own remote username and "mypassphrase" with your GPG passphrase.

      mvn -Dusername=myusername release:perform

   The release:perform command will either prompt for your GPG passphrase, or,
   if you are running the agent, bring up a window to prompt.

   The result of running this command is to create the target jar, the sources
   jar, and the javadoc jar. These jars will then be signed, and the jars and
   signature files will be deployed to the staging repository at Sonatype. The
   site documentation will then be created and deployed to its web site,
   currently http://www.kathrynhuxtable.org/projects/site/seaglass.

5. Check and close the staged release at Sonatype

   Open a web browser and go to http://oss.sonatype.org and log in. You should
   see a "Staging" repository link under the "Enterprise" heading in the left
   pane of the browser window.

   Click on the "Staging" link. You should now see a "com.seaglasslookandfeel"
   repository in the top panel of the "Staging" pane that opens. Click on the
   "com.seaglasslookandfeel" label. If all went well in your "release:perform"
   you should see a repository in the lower pane.

   Click on that repository and it should open a third pane below, with the
   directory structure that will be deployed. Check it out. Make sure
   everything looks good.

   If it does not look good, right-click on the staged repository in the
   middle pane and select "drop" from the choices. Then go back to your
   release process and figure out what went wrong and start over.

   If it does look good, right-click on the staged repository in the middle
   pane and select "close" from the choices. You will be prompted for a
   comment. Enter something like "Releasing version xxx for general use.", or
   whatever you like. Click "Close" on that dialog.

   If there are signing problems with your GPG, this is where they will be
   detected. If there are no problems, then the staging will be marked
   "closed". At this point, the jars should show up in the staging repository
   at http://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/staging/, for more testing, if
   desired.

6. Promote the release

   When you are satisfied, which generally shouldn't take long, you may
   right-click again on the staged repository in the middle pane of the
   "Staging" pane and select "promote" from the options. This moves the jars
   into Sonatype's releases repository at
   http://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/releases/, whence it will
   be deployed to the Maven Central repository at
   http://repo1.maven.org/maven2, which can take a day.

More information

   The main Maven documentation and release site is at

      http://maven.apache.org

   The release plugin documentation can be navigated to from there, but
   it is at

      http://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-release-plugin/

   For more information on Sonatype's open source hosting, go to

      http://nexus.sonatype.org/oss-repository-hosting.html
